hello this is BBC News I'm Anna Foster
live in southern Israel and we've been
watching this morning crowds of people
gathering in southern Gaza at the Rafa
Crossing into Egypt after suggestions
that the first foreign passport holders
will be able to leave along with some
badly injured people let me show you
these pictures that you can see on your
screen now um we know that the call went
out just a few hours ago uh that people
were likely to be able to leave and
we're seeing you can see look the
cameras in those pictures the crowds of
people in that internal area at the
Crossing Point um potentially 500 or so
foreign passport holders will be able to
pass through the AFP news agency says
that that has already happened but if
you just look at these pictures here if
you imagine this crossing point which
has several stages and what it's hard to
tell right now is whether people are
moving internally on the Gaza side and
whether or not they have actually
crossed through into e Egypt it will
only really be when we see people
stepping foot onto Egyptian soil that we
know that those first Crossings have
finally happened uh so far of course
we've only seen a very small number of
hostages leave Gaza since the War Began
on October the 7th um but we believe now
that foreign passport holders on a
pre-approved list which has been
published for several days now may be
able to cross out along with people
who've been badly injured um we are also
hearing from our correspondent in Gaza
rushia bu that once again Communications
and internet services inside Gaza have
been cut this would be the second time
in a week this happened first of all on
Friday evening it causes of course huge
problems for the civilian community in
gazra means people can't contact each
other they can't reassure uh family
friends and loved ones that they're safe
but it also creates huge problems for
humanitarian organizations working
within Gaza as well it means they can't
contact their staff and it means that
people on the ground can't do simple
things like call for ambulances for
example or for Medical Aid um after
strikes um I've also got some pictures
to show you as well take a look at um
the Israel Defense Force pictures which
uh have been sent through as well uh
these are latest pictures from the
Israel Defense Forces of their military
operation in the north of the Gaza Strip
you can see there um this is a strike
from uh from yesterday afternoon and
evening in the jabalia area um you can
see um this is one of the uh this is one
of the things that uh that Israel has
been working on and in fact you can hear
in the background when you hear those
bangs and explosions in the background
where I am in southern Israel that is
the ongoing Israeli military operation
but they're showing and you've seen
there on your screen you can see the
pictures of Israeli tanks and Israeli
troops uh doing their work very much in
the north of Gaza there were two large
strikes yesterday that uh Israeli forces
said had killed a senior Hamas Commander
uh but also civilian casualties as well
let's go live first of all to Cairo in
Egypt where AID organizations we've been
reporting are poised to try and bring
more humanitarian Aid actually into Gaza
well Global empowerment mission is one
of those groups they've been active uh
in Ukraine during the Morocco earthquake
as well uh their founder Michael Capone
joins me now and Michael I know you are
waiting at the moment you've got Aid
just tell me a bit about about what more
you've got there what you have ready to
take into Gaza when you get the
chance thank you for having me so we got
here about three weeks ago we've been
setting up infrastructure while we're
waiting simultaneously on getting trucks
through the Rafa gate so what we did is
we set up a large Warehouse like we do
all over the world and right now we've
been purchasing a lot of local Aid food
and water and we have now uh five trucks
that are basically ready and we are
waiting for clearance right right now
the people are coming out from the Gaza
side and we're waiting to be able to go
in we're confident now based on all our
meetings with un with three governments
with everybody that you know by early
next week I think there's going to be or
earlier a very big inflow of uh Aid that
we'll be able to get inside and we have
really good local Partners inside Gaza
that have been working there for more
than a decade that are very trusted and
basically our role here is to collect
supplies from the whole world like we do
and amass it pze it sort it prepare it
and ship it over to through the Rafa
gate and into our partner Ana's hands
and then there they distribute at the
shelters that are housing a lot of
children a lot of women right now and to
give support and the other Missing Link
that's important is that there's because
of no gas uh inside Gaza right now even
our partners like you said they cannot
communicate amongst each other because
of communications and they also have no
gas to be able to even bring this to
other areas other than you know close to
the Rafa gate so that's going to need to
be worked out soon
too you you talked there and we've been
talking so much about the the complexity
of the political situation here because
in other areas around the world you
would be able to move all of that Aid in
very quickly what are you being told
about how long it might take to actually
transport all of that across into
Gaza well time we don't know but what we
have been given now is basically exact
standards how big the pallets should be
what they are what will be prioritized
how they're going to go through before
they go to the Rafa gate they go to
another area to be checked by the
Israeli government right to make sure
that it's not weapons and it's things of
you know basic necessities that are
needed so it it's a whole process um I I
do imagine I mean there's already about
700 trucks in line at the border right
now from all different kinds of
countries throughout the Middle East all
that stuff needs to be properly cleared
first before it goes in so those are the
procedures